README.md, before:

# Cybou - Secure Cryptography App

A cross-platform Rust GUI application for secure cryptography using post-quantum algorithms and mnemonic-based key derivation.

## Features

### 🔐 Core Security

- **Mnemonic-based Key Derivation**: Uses BIP39 standard for secure key generation from 12/24-word phrases
- **Post-Quantum Cryptography**: Implements NIST-recommended PQ algorithms
  - Kyber (ML-KEM) for key encapsulation and encryption
  - Dilithium (ML-DSA) for digital signatures
  - Falcon and SPHINCS+ additional signature algorithms
- **Hybrid Encryption**: Combines PQ key exchange with AES-GCM for data encryption
- **Key Rotation**: Automatic key rotation with version management and backward compatibility
- **Secure Memory**: Uses zeroize crate for secure memory wiping

### 🖥️ User Interface

- **Native GUI**: Built with eframe/egui for cross-platform compatibility
- **System Tray**: Minimizable to system tray with popup menu
- **Tabbed Interface**: Organized tabs for different cryptographic operations
- **File Dialogs**: Native OS file/folder selection dialogs

### 📁 Cryptographic Operations

- **Text Encryption/Decryption**: Encrypt and decrypt text with base64 encoding
- **File Encryption/Decryption**: Secure file encryption with PQ + AES hybrid scheme
- **Folder Encryption**: Archive and encrypt entire directories
- **Digital Signatures**: Sign messages and verify signatures
- **Password Generation**: Generate secure random passwords with customizable complexity
- **Password Assessment**: Analyze password strength and security
- **Backup System**: Automated deduplicating backup with real-time file watching ✅
  - File system monitoring with change detection
  - Content-based deduplication using BLAKE3
  - Progress tracking and verification
  - Multi-folder support with configurable destinations
  - Automatic cleanup of old backups
- **Cloud Storage**: Encrypted cloud backups with AWS S3 integration ✅
  - Secure upload/download to AWS S3 buckets
  - Integrated with existing encryption framework
  - Multi-cloud provider support (AWS, GCP, Azure planned)
- **Key Management**: Advanced key lifecycle management
  - Key version tracking and rotation
  - Key metadata export/import
  - Key statistics and analytics

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Rust 1.70+ (install via [rustup](https://rustup.rs/))
- Windows/Linux/macOS

### Build from Source

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd cybou
cargo build --release
```

### Run

```bash
cargo run --release
```

## Usage

1. **First Launch**: Enter a valid 12 or 24-word BIP39 mnemonic phrase
2. **Key Derivation**: The app derives PQ keys and master encryption key from your mnemonic
3. **Operations**:
   - **Text Tab**: Encrypt/decrypt text messages
   - **File Tab**: Encrypt/decrypt files
   - **Sign/Verify Tab**: Create and verify digital signatures
   - **Folder Tab**: Encrypt entire folders
   - **Backups Tab**: Configure automated backup system
   - **Cloud Storage Tab**: Upload/download encrypted files to/from cloud storage
   - **Key Management Tab**: View key versions, rotate keys, and manage cryptographic security

## Security Notes

- **Mnemonic Security**: Your mnemonic phrase is the master key to all your data
- **Key Storage**: Keys are derived on-demand and securely wiped after use
- **PQ Algorithms**: Uses NIST-standard post-quantum cryptography resistant to quantum attacks
- **Hybrid Scheme**: Combines PQ security with proven symmetric encryption

## Dependencies

### Runtime Dependencies

- `eframe` / `egui`: GUI framework
- `bip39`: BIP39 mnemonic handling
- `pbkdf2`: Password-based key derivation
- `pqc_kyber`: Kyber post-quantum encryption
- `pqc_dilithium`: Dilithium post-quantum signatures
- `falcon-rust`: Falcon post-quantum signatures
- `pqcrypto-sphincsplus`: SPHINCS+ post-quantum signatures
- `aes-gcm`: AES-GCM symmetric encryption
- `base64`: Safe encoding
- `zeroize`: Secure memory wiping
- `rand`: Cryptographic randomness
- `rfd`: Native file dialogs
- `tar` / `flate2`: Archive compression
- `tray-icon`: System tray integration
- `notify`: File system monitoring
- `blake3`: Fast cryptographic hashing
- `aws-config` / `aws-sdk-s3`: AWS S3 cloud storage integration

## Architecture

The application follows a modular architecture for better maintainability and separation of concerns:

```text
src/
├── main.rs              # Application entry point and system tray integration
├── types.rs             # Core data structures and type definitions
├── crypto.rs            # Cryptographic operations and key management
├── ui.rs                # User interface components and rendering
├── backup.rs            # Automated backup system and file monitoring
└── cloud.rs             # Cloud storage operations and integrations
```

### Module Responsibilities

- **`main.rs`**: Application initialization, system tray management, eframe app implementation
- **`types.rs`**: Data structures (`App`, `SensitiveData`, `KeyVersion`), key lifecycle management
- **`crypto.rs`**: Encryption/decryption, digital signatures, password generation and assessment
- **`ui.rs`**: GUI components, tab management, user interaction handling
- **`backup.rs`**: File watching, deduplication, backup lifecycle management
- **`cloud.rs`**: Cloud provider integrations, upload/download operations

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Disclaimer

This software is for educational and research purposes. While it implements cryptographic best practices, it has not been audited for production use. Always backup your mnemonic phrases securely.

Commit message:

Enhance user interface with multi-window architecture and improved system tray integration

README.md, after:

# Cybou - Secure Cryptography App

A cross-platform Rust GUI application for secure cryptography using post-quantum algorithms and mnemonic-based key derivation.

## Features

### 🔐 Core Security

- **Mnemonic-based Key Derivation**: Uses BIP39 standard for secure key generation from 12/24-word phrases
- **Post-Quantum Cryptography**: Implements NIST-recommended PQ algorithms
  - Kyber (ML-KEM) for key encapsulation and encryption
  - Dilithium (ML-DSA) for digital signatures
  - Falcon and SPHINCS+ additional signature algorithms
- **Hybrid Encryption**: Combines PQ key exchange with AES-GCM for data encryption
- **Key Rotation**: Automatic key rotation with version management and backward compatibility
- **Secure Memory**: Uses zeroize crate for secure memory wiping

### 🖥️ User Interface

- **Multi-Window Architecture**: Separate windows for different functions instead of tabs
- **Dashboard**: Main window with aggregated statistics and quick actions
- **System Tray Integration**: Enhanced tray menu for opening specific windows
- **Native GUI**: Built with eframe/egui for cross-platform compatibility
- **File Dialogs**: Native OS file/folder selection dialogs

### 📁 Cryptographic Operations

- **Text Encryption/Decryption**: Encrypt and decrypt text with base64 encoding
- **File Encryption/Decryption**: Secure file encryption with PQ + AES hybrid scheme
- **Folder Encryption**: Archive and encrypt entire directories
- **Digital Signatures**: Sign messages and verify signatures
- **Password Generation**: Generate secure random passwords with customizable complexity
- **Password Assessment**: Analyze password strength and security
- **Backup System**: Automated deduplicating backup with real-time file watching ✅
  - File system monitoring with change detection
  - Content-based deduplication using BLAKE3
  - Progress tracking and verification
  - Multi-folder support with configurable destinations
  - Automatic cleanup of old backups
- **Cloud Storage**: Encrypted cloud backups with AWS S3 integration ✅
  - Secure upload/download to AWS S3 buckets
  - Integrated with existing encryption framework
  - Multi-cloud provider support (AWS, GCP, Azure planned)
- **Key Management**: Advanced key lifecycle management
  - Key version tracking and rotation
  - Key metadata export/import
  - Key statistics and analytics

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Rust 1.70+ (install via [rustup](https://rustup.rs/))
- Windows/Linux/macOS

### Build from Source

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd cybou
cargo build --release
```

### Run

```bash
cargo run --release
```

## Usage

1. **First Launch**: Enter a valid 12 or 24-word BIP39 mnemonic phrase
2. **Key Derivation**: The app derives PQ keys and master encryption key from your mnemonic
3. **Operations**:
   - **Text Tab**: Encrypt/decrypt text messages
   - **File Tab**: Encrypt/decrypt files
   - **Sign/Verify Tab**: Create and verify digital signatures
   - **Folder Tab**: Encrypt entire folders
   - **Backups Tab**: Configure automated backup system
   - **Cloud Storage Tab**: Upload/download encrypted files to/from cloud storage
   - **Key Management Tab**: View key versions, rotate keys, and manage cryptographic security

## Security Notes

- **Mnemonic Security**: Your mnemonic phrase is the master key to all your data
- **Key Storage**: Keys are derived on-demand and securely wiped after use
- **PQ Algorithms**: Uses NIST-standard post-quantum cryptography resistant to quantum attacks
- **Hybrid Scheme**: Combines PQ security with proven symmetric encryption

## Dependencies

### Runtime Dependencies

- `eframe` / `egui`: GUI framework
- `bip39`: BIP39 mnemonic handling
- `pbkdf2`: Password-based key derivation
- `pqc_kyber`: Kyber post-quantum encryption
- `pqc_dilithium`: Dilithium post-quantum signatures
- `falcon-rust`: Falcon post-quantum signatures
- `pqcrypto-sphincsplus`: SPHINCS+ post-quantum signatures
- `aes-gcm`: AES-GCM symmetric encryption
- `base64`: Safe encoding
- `zeroize`: Secure memory wiping
- `rand`: Cryptographic randomness
- `rfd`: Native file dialogs
- `tar` / `flate2`: Archive compression
- `tray-icon`: System tray integration
- `notify`: File system monitoring
- `blake3`: Fast cryptographic hashing
- `aws-config` / `aws-sdk-s3`: AWS S3 cloud storage integration

## Architecture

The application follows a modular architecture for better maintainability and separation of concerns:

```text
src/
├── main.rs              # Application entry point and system tray integration
├── types.rs             # Core data structures and type definitions
├── crypto.rs            # Cryptographic operations and key management
├── ui.rs                # User interface components and rendering
├── backup.rs            # Automated backup system and file monitoring
└── cloud.rs             # Cloud storage operations and integrations
```

### Module Responsibilities

- **`main.rs`**: Application initialization, system tray management, eframe app implementation
- **`types.rs`**: Data structures (`App`, `SensitiveData`, `KeyVersion`), key lifecycle management
- **`crypto.rs`**: Encryption/decryption, digital signatures, password generation and assessment
- **`ui.rs`**: GUI components, tab management, user interaction handling
- **`backup.rs`**: File watching, deduplication, backup lifecycle management
- **`cloud.rs`**: Cloud provider integrations, upload/download operations

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Disclaimer

This software is for educational and research purposes. While it implements cryptographic best practices, it has not been audited for production use. Always backup your mnemonic phrases securely.
